



INDEX






Salvation.!!  Mans problem.


In search of truth? Is Jesus Fake ?? Is Jesus Truth.  Is Jesus God.


Christ in ancient Vedas, Hindu Mythology


Meditation ,  TM,  Vipassanna,  Yoga,  SRF


A Few more Questions:


Glossary


Disclaimer


How can one receive salvation. Can it be purchased? Can it be earned by working
towards it, by Yoga or by living a good charitable life?? Or, is it free ??

                        MAN's PROBLEM

Man is sinful in nature. God is most Holy.

SEPARATION FROM GOD

     But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God,
     And your sins have hidden His face from you, so that He does not
     hear. (Isaiah 59:2)

     There is none righteous, not even one (Romans 3:9,10)

     For all men have sinned and fall short of the glory (the perfect
     holiness) of God  (Romans 3:23)

Scripture declares all men to be sinful. To "sin" means to miss the mark.
In other words, our sin separates us from God who is perfect holiness
(righteousness and justice) and God must therefore judge sinful man.


FUTILITY of OUR WORKS

Most religions say, you should do good works (Karma) to gain salvation. Few
other religions go a step ahead and describe the exact steps (eg meditation,
Vipassana, Yoga) to gain salvation. God (thro Jesus) said, There is no other
way, I am the Way, The Truth and life. No one comes to God except thro me.
Karma, Yoga and meditation will make you a good person on earth, but you
still cannot meet Gods standards of holiness. No amount of human goodness,
human works(Daan-Punya), human morality, or religious activity (Pooja-Paath)
can gain acceptance with God or get us salvation. We receive salvation through
God's unmerited grace, not as the result of any effort, ability, intelligent
choice or act of service on our part. Meditation will give you great patience.
Alms, charity and good living will earn you goodwill, but it will not give you
salvation. No human effort, action or work can help us obtain salvation.

     For by grace you have been saved, through faith; and that not of
     yourselves, it is the gift of God;  not as a result of works,
     that no one should boast. (Ephesians 2:8-9)

     He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in
     righteousness, but according to His mercy, by the washing
     of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit,  whom He poured
     out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,  that being
     justified by His grace we might be made heirs according to the
     hope of eternal life. (Titus 3:5-7)

No amount of human goodness is as good as God. God is perfect righteousness.
The moral man, the religious man, and the immoral and non-religious are all
in the same boat. They all fall short of God's perfect righteousness. Salvation
can not be achieved, It cannot be earned. Then, How do we get it?

God cannot have fellowship with anyone who does not have perfect righteousness.
In order to be accepted by God, we must be as good as God is. Before God, we
all stand naked, helpless, and hopeless in ourselves. No amount of Punya, 
Daan-dharma & good living will get us salvation or give us eternal life.
What then is the solution?


                       GOD's SOLUTION

God is not only perfect holiness (whose holy character we can never attain
on our own or by our works of righteousness) but He is also perfect love
and full of grace and mercy. Because of His love and grace, He died for the
sins of entire mankind. Salvation is God's free gift to mankind. Man cannot
earn it, man cannot attain it, unless God gives it to us.

     But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that
     while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. (Romans 5:8)

     He made Him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, that we might
     become the righteousness of God in Him. (2 Corinthians 5:21)

This is the good news of the Bible, the message of the gospel. It's the
message of the gift of God's own Son who became man (the God-man), lived a
sinless life, died on the cross for our sin, and was raised from the grave
proving both the fact He is God's Son and the value of His death for us as
our substitute.

     For God so loved the world, that He gave His only
     begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish, but
     have eternal life. For God did not send the Son into the world to
     judge the world, but that the world should be saved through Him.
     He who believes in Him is not judged; he who does not believe has
     been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of
     the only begotten Son of God.  (John 3:16-18)

     For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust,
     in order that He might bring us to God, having been put to death in
     the flesh, but made alive in the spirit; (1 Peter 3:18)

However, out of gratitude for this God's free gift of salvation, we will
seek to help and serve others with kindness, love and gentleness and not
merely to please ourselves.  It will result in a natural genuine concern for
others

                     How Do We Receive God's gift?

The Bible states "He that has the Son has life." We can receive Jesus Christ,
as our Savior by personal faith, by trusting in the person of Christ and His
death for our sins.

This means we must each come to God the same way: (1) as a sinner who
recognizes his sinfulness, (2) realizes no human works can result in
salvation, and (3) trust totally on Christ alone by faith alone for our
salvation.


Illustration about Gods priceless gift:
A story is told about the deep sea diver father and son team in the Hawaiian
islands. A church pastor had tried talking to them on many occasions about
Gods priceless gift, in vain. The sea-diver would say "How can Salvation be
free, I must work for it". One fateful day, during their diving expeditions
the son found a large precious pearl at the sea bed, As he began his ascend
to the water surface he was running short of his breath. He barely managed to
get the pearl to his father, but lost his life. The pastor offered to pay
good money to buy the pearl, but the diver replied, "This pearl is priceless
to me, my son has got it with his own life. It is not for sale. No amount of
money can buy it. The only way for you to get this pearl is if I gift it free
to you"  Right then his eyes opened. He could draw a parallel between Gods
free priceless gift of Salvation. Salvation is free, but it is not Cheap,
because Jesus had to pay for it by His own blood/life on the cross. Will you
accept this free gift today !

No amount of human good-work can earn salvation for us. It is like a man saying
Let me jump and reach the moon. No matter how hard he jumps or how good high
jumper he is, he will never reach the moon. No matter how good life one leads,
mans rightousness is like filthy rag in Gods eyes ( Isiah)

Could you improve on a masterpiece? Imagine that you are walking through the
Louvre museum in Paris. As you approach the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci,
would you think about taking a palette and brushes and touching up the
painting? Maybe put some more color in her cheeks? Perhaps change her nose a
little? 
"That's ridiculous!" you say. For nearly 500 years the Mona Lisa has been
considered one of the greatest artistic works of all time. How absurd to think
we could add anything to this masterpiece! 
Yet that's what many people try to do with Christ's masterpiece-salvation. They
think they must improve on it with some work of their own. But that masterpiece
was completed when Jesus said, "It is finished," while hanging on the cross
(John 19:30). Then He proved that His work of redemption was done when He rose
from the dead. 
When you hear that Jesus paid the price for your sin and that you don't have to
do anything to merit God's grace, do you think it's too good to be true? Do you
think there's something you must do to earn it? 
You can't add anything! Receive God's gift of salvation. Jesus paid it all. The
masterpiece is complete.
			Christ's work for my salvation is complete!
                        No work of mine can add to what He's done;
                        I bow to worship at the Master's feet,
                        And honor God the Father's only Son.

 
Christs teachings are dynamically opposite to that of other religions. Some
religions say, in order to gain salvation you need to do so-and-so, you need
to do following things, but they never explain how to do it. Some religions
give a step by step methodical procedure (eg. Meditation, Vipassana, Yoga,
etc etc...). of attaining salvation in various levels of conciousness.
Christ, thro his life (and thro his death and ressurection) first proved that
He is from God, that He is God, nobody comes to God except thro Him. He
also said, you do not have to do anything on your own (because even if you try
you cannot attain Gods holiness). There are no steps to follow, nor there are
any levels of conciousness to attain. All you have to do is to BELIEVE.
Have FAITH. Have TRUST. Do not have just a blind belief, but have a real
belief based on reading historical account, reading bible and more importantly
based on FAITH and conviction. For example, consider a chair. You look at it
and it looks like it will hold your weight. But how do you know it will really
hold your weight - not unless you sit in it. A conviction requires belief,
requires action, requires innermost acceptance. On a conviction, you stake your
entire life. A conviction is not cheap. Because, your life style changes based
on that conviction.

Buddha never said "I am God". However, at numerous occasions, Christ claimed
about himself that He is God. Infact He went one step ahead and said, I am the
only way. There is no other way except thro me. Moreover, No other saintly -
godly person (Krishna, Rama, Shiva, Vishnu, Mahaveer) claimed that they could
raise themself from the dead once again. Christ told about his ressurection to
his disciples and followers well in advance even before he was put to death.
Christ alone had the power to come back to life after death (in the same body).
Christ was ressurected, not re-incarnated. If Christ was indeed fake, he would
have run for his life to escape death on the cross.

Religion does not save you. Being a Hindu/muslim/Sikh does not save you. Even
being a christian does not save you. What saves you is your Faith in Christ,
your belief in Christ, your personal relationship with Christ.

Saintly persons point to the one who sent them (the Supreme being), but they
themselves are not gods. There is nothing wrong in following say VivekAnand's
lifestyle or say Gandhiji`s lifestyle of non-violence) but worshipping them
in place of God (the supreme being) is improper. Do not worship the messenger.
Know the true God and worship the true God alone.




Is Jesus Fake ?? Is Jesus God.  Is Jesus Truth.
===============================================

Does truth exist.? Is there such a thing called TRUTH? What/who is truth? 
Does it exist in various levels?

Truth is absolute. Truth remains.
Truth does not exist in levels. One cannot say that I am saying 40% truth
or 50% truth of the actual incidence. Similarly sin (a wrong deed which pricks
our consciense) sin is always sin. There are no levels of sin. Small sins, even
though if it could result in benifit of others as a side effect would still be
considered sin in the eyes of the creator.

There are no levels of truth. However there could be various forms (various
kinds) of truth. One which is concrete, which we can touch, feel or see (example
furnace is hot, sugar is sweet)  And the other kind is abstract, intangible.
Do you truly know that breeze exists. Wind is abstract yet we know that it
truly exists. As Jesus once said "The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear
its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it goes. So it
is with everyone born of the Spirit."
Just like wind(breeze) there are many abstract things which cannot be touched,
and felt , such as: our life (soul/spirit), we know that it truly exists
because we experience it. Likewise, the truth about existence of the Soverign
God has to be experienced. He is all truth, all Holy, the supreme being...
always incontrol. Some people BELIEVE in Him and others dont, (and yet
someothers continue searching for the REAL truth). However, the bottom line
stays unchanged: The truth (or the fact) no matter how abstract it is, is not
going to change if we shut our eyes, bury our heads in sand.

The truth (Jesus and His entire life) is right infront of us. The question is,
Will we accept it or Will we stubornly continue to reject Him?

Some people say "Show me a concrete/Solid proof, only then I will believe"
Proof: Ressurection of Christ from the dead.  As events occur, few of them
are recorded while others go down in history unrecorded. Fortunately, Christs
crucification and resurrection is recorded in history in the same way as the
life of Siddharth Gautam Buddha. Just because some event occured years ago it
does not mean that those events never happened. The famous Titanic ship sank in
the Atlantic ocean nearly 100 years ago (early 1900); after a few hundred years
pass over, (it is quite possible) people may think of it as a fictional story.
After few centuries people may think of Adolf Hitler as a mythological 
daemonic person who never existed in reality; Jaliahwala Baug massacre never
happened. Gettysburg American civil war never happened. In fact, In reality,
all these things did indeed  happen, did exist. Likewise Christ was indeed
crucified and he indeed rose again from the dead. People touched his nail-stuck
palms......
If we were present during that old-era we too would have believed. Today, many
years have passed, and we think it could not be true.
"People who do not see and yet they beileve, far greater is their faith" so the
bible declares.
Christs birth, Christs teachings, crucification and his ressurection have 
been recorded in the Bible. Just because some facts are very old (ancient)
and historic, that does not diminish its authenticity.

Few people say, I do not trust the facts recorded in the Bible, because the
bible presents a very biased (christian) view. In that case, there are other
books and historical accounts available at the library or book store, among
which "Works of Josephus" is prominent. Josephus was a Jew-greek historian. He
was NOT a christian. He was merely a historian by profession. His writings
mention about Jesus. Likewise other historical accounts about King Alexander
The Great, mention about King of Persia King Darius (around 400 BC) King
Darius's defeat at the hands of Alexander. This is the same King Darius, king
of persia also found mentioned in the bible with Daniel. Besides "Works of
Josephus" there are many other external written evidences such as the Dead-Sea
Scroll etc etc which validate the authenticity of the bible.

Even then, Inspite of these, few people say: Even though there are other books,
documents and scrolls (Dead-Sea-Scroll) which validate the correctness of
Bible, I do not believe in the facts of Bible because there are so many other
books, novels, people etc etc... which talk about something, not every thing
they say is always true.
The answer to that is clear and simple. How do you differentiate a trustworthy
person from a decietful person. Through out ones association, we watch/observe
them over and over again, and note if he/she was been truthfull in the past.
If he/she has been truthfull at all the previous occasions, we can guage/guess
the trustworthness of that person. On the way to post-office, we ask someone
for directions. If nine out of ten landmarks came to be true, we have every
reason to believe that we are on the right path. Christ came to show the PATH.
He never mislead people. Christ was True at all times, even during the time of 
His crucification. If he was fake, he would have not hung up on the cross.


Christ in ancient Vedas (Hindu Mythology)
=======================

Paravastu S. Narayana Rao from Hydrabad, AndhraPradesh, India visited
California, USA. in Feb 1997. He gave a very interesting message as he tried
to take a deeper look into two different religions, Hinduism and Christanity.
He mentioned it was not meant to be a comparision of Gods, (because most
people believe there is One God). It was purely based on his study, experience
and revelation.

Paravastu S Narayana Rao was born & brought up in the family of Matthadhi-pati
(family incharge of Mattham, traditionally). He was sent for Mattha-paath
(study in the Mattham for vedic scripture) at Sri Narayana Mattham, where he
studied the sanskrit vedic scripture for 17 years. Later, he was ordained as
the Maha-Poojari of "Puri Jagannatha Mattha-pitam".
This is what he said:

1. Yagna
Study of Rigveda, in one of its sloka revealed that "Yagna he pratham dharma
karya" (Yagna is compulsory for every one including men and gods for forgiviness
of their sins). Vyasa Maharshi (writer of Mahabharata) writes about sins of gods
in the preface of an upnashid (the translation of Veda). Point to ponder: Why do
gods (daiva-lokh) need redemtion from sin. Aranyakarda 63,4 (one of the book in
Rigveda, chapter63 verse4) has a sloka where Lord Rama is confessing about his
sins in his previous life to his guru. (point to ponder: Sri Rama was re-
incarnation of God, how could he have sinned. Why do people worship the sage or
the messenger and not the true God. Sages/saints are mere oracle/people of God
bringing His message.
In light of "Yagna he pratham dharma karya" (Yagna is compulsory for the
forgiviness of sins) Christianity also talks about sacrifice/offering in old
testament for the atonement of the sins. (Genesis, Deuteronomy)

2. Maha-Yagna
According to Rigveda, MahaYagna is necessary for Salvation. The balli (offering)
to be offered on the yagna-peettam (offering table) should be clean (which
means outward as well as inward cleanliness) and ultimate offering having half
human and half divine traits ( half-humanity and half-divinity). Christianity
also talks about the ultimate sacrifice of the one who possessed human and
divine characters (Matt 22, Mark 15)

Sri Paravastu S. Narayana Rao says, this similarity was revealed to him while
he was still serving as the Maha-poojari of "Puri Jagannath Matha-pitam".
Following this, he posed these troubled thoughts to his guruji. He got a severe
harsh warning, a very hostile attitude and was asked to keep shut. Upon
insisting further he was removed from his duties as the Maha-poojari and was
confined to a closed cell for 7 days, where Lord God revealed the Truth to him.

After that he had many great testimonies describing how God saved him from near
death situations.

The world is lost trying to find the true way on their own, but tend to
overlook the obvious.

For more information, please read "Christ in Ancient Vedas" by J.Padinjarekara,
available in most bookstores.



Meditation ,  TM,  Vipassanna,  Yoga
====================================

For ages, people have tried various ways to find Salvation/ seek truth.
Can Salvation be attained in various levels?, thro various levels of
conciousness??


Q: What is meditation?
Ans: The true Sanskrit root word for meditation is "Yoga" or "Dhyana", which
     simply means "to concentrate", with the hope of trying to unite with the
     divine being. "union"

Q: Different types of meditation?
Ans: Yoga is very generic term and is known more widely.

    Yoga as taught/practised by Paramhansa Yogananda. (SRF - Self Realization
    Fellowship in Los Angeles, CA) Known for his: "Autobiograpy of a Yogi"

    Vipassanna, as taught by S N Goenka (practised at Yesomite, CA) is similar
    to Yoga. (More details on Yoga are described below)

    TM, New age Trans meditation. (Trans meditation thro focused chanting)

Q: What happens when you practise meditation?
Ans: It gives you self-control over anger, control over anxiety, patience.

Q: What has meditation to do with spirituality?
  By practising yoga one gets control over anger, control over anxiety, patience
  One may even get some supernatural powers, get inner peace, and feel happy &
  content. BUT, The important thing missing is: "Salvation". One does not get
  freedom from sin. (The word "Salvation" means deliverence/redemption from sin)
  Yoga/Meditation will make you a good person in the eyes of this world, but
  not in the eyes of the most holy God. Above all things "the truth prevails".
  Truth does not change. A Jew, a Christian or a self-controlled, calm & patient
  yogi saint (practising yoga/meditation for all his entire life) are all equal
  in the eyes of the most Holy God.

Q: Human mind has all the mystries hidden in it and Yoga is supposed to help
  understand (and control) your mind? Yoga makes you to search for God residing
  within you?
Ans: Most of the yogic followers believe that each person has a hidden image of
  God within himself with which one should commune (Talk to your inner self thro
  yoga). The fact of the matter is, human-beings in all their goodness are
  infinately matchless compared to the supreme being. On his own, Man cannot
  even change the color of his hairs or prevent them from falling; he cannot
  increase his own life even if he desires.
"And which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his span of life?" (Matt6:27)
  Human mind is a very complex thing; Man in his greatest inventions (and
  technological advances), can never match God (or Gods creation)
  Man is definately not God, otherwise the world would be much better place.


Following is an article on Yoga:

The Art of Living: Vipassana Meditation  By: Mr. S.N. Goenka

Everyone seeks peace and harmony, because these are what we lack in our
lives. From time to time we all experience agitation, irritation,
disharmony, suffering; and when one suffers from agitation, one does not
keep this misery limited to oneself. One keeps distributing it to others
as well. The agitation permeates the atmosphere around the miserable
person. Everyone who comes into contact with him also becomes irritated,
agitated. Certainly this is not the proper way to live.

One ought to live at peace with oneself, and at peace with all others.
After all, a human being is a social being. He has to live in society--to
live and deal with others. How are we to live peacefully? How are we to
remain harmonious with ourselves, and to maintain peace and harmony
around us, so that others can also live peacefully and harmoniously?

One is agitated. To come out of the agitation, one has to know the basic
reason for it, the cause of the suffering. If one investigates the
problem, it will become clear that whenever one starts generating any
negativity or defilement in the mind, one is bound to become agitated. A
negativity in the mind, a mental defilement or impurity, cannot exist
with peace and harmony.

How does one start generating negativity? Again, by investigating, it
becomes clear. I become very unhappy when I find someone behaving in a
way which I don't like, when I find something happening which I don't
like. Unwanted things happen and I create tension within myself. Wanted
things do not happen, some obstacles come in the way, and again I create
tension within myself; I start tying knots within myself. And throughout
life, unwanted things keep on happening, wanted things may or may not
happen, and this process or reaction, of tying knots--Gordian
knots--makes the entire mental and physical structure so tense, so full
of negativity, that life becomes miserable.

Now one way to solve the problem is to arrange that nothing unwanted
happens in my life and that everything keeps on happening exactly as I
desire. i must develop such power, or somebody else must have the power
and must come to my aid when I request him, that unwanted things do not
happen and that everything I want happens. But this is not possible.
There is no one in the world whose desires are always fulfilled, in whose
life everything happens according to his wishes, without anything
unwanted happening. Things keep on occurring that are contrary to our
desires and wishes. So the question arises, how am I not to react blindly
in the face of these things which I don't like? How not to create
tension? How to remain peaceful and harmonious?

In India as well as in other countries, wise saintly persons of the past
studied this problem--the problem of human suffering--and found a
solution: if something unwanted happens and one starts to react by
generating anger, fear or any negativity, then as soon as possible one
should divert one's attention to something else. For example, get up,
take a glass of water, start drinking--your anger will not multiply and
you'll be coming out of anger. Or start counting: one, two, three, four.
Or start repeating a word, or a phrase, or some mantra, perhaps the name
of a deity or saintly person in whom you have devotion; the mind is
diverted, and to some extent, you'll be out of the negativity, out of
anger.

This solution was helpful: it worked. It still works. Practicing this,
the mind feels free from agitation. In fact, however, the solution works
only at the conscious level. Actually, by diverting the attention, one
pushes the negativity deep into the unconscious, and on this level one
continues to generate and multiply the same defilements. At the surface
level there is a layer of peace and harmony, but in the depths of the
mind there is a sleeping volcano of suppressed negativity which sooner or
later will explode in violent eruption.

Other explorers of inner truth went still further in their search; and by
experiencing the reality of mind and matter within themselves they
recognized that diverting the attention is only running away from the
problem. Escape is no solution: one must face the problem. Whenever a
negativity arises in the mind, just observe it, face it. As soon as one
starts observing any mental defilement, it beings to lose strength.
Slowly it withers away and is uprooted.

A good solution: it avoids both extremes--suppression and free license.
Keeping the negativity in the unconscious will not eradicate it; and
allowing it to manifest in physical or vocal action will only create more
problems. But if one just observes, then the defilement passes away, and
one has eradicated that negativity, one is freed from the defilement.

This sounds wonderful, but is it really practical? For an average person,
is it easy to face the defilement? When anger arises, it overpowers us so
quickly that we don't even notice. Then overpowered by anger, we commit
certain actions physically or vocally which are harmful to us and to
others. Later, when the anger has passed, we start crying and repenting,
begging pardon from this or that person or from God: 'Oh, I made a
mistake, please excuse me!' But the next time we are in a similar
situation, we again react in the same way. All that repenting does not
help at all.

The difficulty is that I am not aware when a defilement starts. It begins
deep in the unconscious level of the mind, and by the time it reaches the
conscious level, it has gained so much strength that it overwhelms me,
and I cannot observe it.

Then I must keep a private secretary with me, so that whenever anger
starts, he says, 'Look master, anger is starting!' Since I cannot know
when this anger will start, I must have three private secretaries for
three shifts, around the clock! Suppose I can afford that, and the anger
starts to arise. At once my secretary tells me, 'Oh, master, look--anger
has started!' The first thing I will do is slap and abuse him: 'You fool!
Do you think you are paid to teach me?' I am so overpowered by anger that
no good advise will help.

Even supposing wisdom prevails and I do not slap him. Instead I say,
'Thank you very much. Now I must sit down and observe my anger.' Yet it
is possible? As soon as I close my eyes and try to observe the anger,
immediately the object of anger come into my mind--the person or incident
because of which I become angry. Then I am not observing the anger
itself. I am merely observing the external stimulus of the emotion. This
will only serve to multiply the anger; this is no solution. It is very
difficult to observe any abstract negativity, abstract emotion, divorced
from the external object which aroused it.

However, one who reached the ultimate truth found a real solution. He
discovered that whenever any defilement arises in the mind,
simultaneously two things start happening at the physical level. One is
that the breath loses its normal rhythm. We start breathing hard whenever
a negativity comes into the mind. This is easy to observe. At subtler
level, some kind of biochemical reaction starts within the body--some
sensation. Every defilement will generate one sensation or another
inside, in one part of the body or another.

This is a practical solution. An ordinary person cannot observe abstract
defilements of the mind--abstract fear, anger, or passion. But with
proper training and practice, it is very easy to observe respiration and
bodily sensations--both of which are directly related to the mental
defilements.

Respiration and sensation will help me in two ways. Firstly, they will be
like my private secretaries. As soon as a defilement starts in my mind,
my breath will lose its normality; it will start shouting, 'Look,
something has gone wrong!' I cannot slap my breath; I have to accept the
warning. Similarly the sensations tell me that something has gone wrong.
Then having been warned, I start observing my respiration, my sensation,
and I find very quickly that the defilement passes away.

This mental-physical phenomenon is like a coin with two sides. On the one
side are whatever thoughts or emotions are arising in the mind. One the
other side are the respiration and sensations in the body. Any thought or
emotion, any mental defilement, manifests itself in the breath an the
sensation of that moment. Thus, by observing the respiration or the
sensation, I am in fact observing the mental defilement. Instead of
running away from the problem, I am facing reality as it is. Then I shall
find that the defilement loses its strength: it can no longer overpower
me as it did in the past. If I persist, the defilement eventually
disappears altogether, and I remain peaceful and happy.

In this way, the techniques of self-observation shows us reality in its
two aspects, inner and outer. Previously, one always looked with open
eyes, missing the inner truth. I always looked outside for the cause of
my unhappiness; I always blamed and tried to change the reality outside.
Being ignorant of the inner reality, I never understood that the cause of
suffering lies within, in my own blind reactions toward pleasant and
unpleasant sensations.

Now, with training, I can see the other side of the coin. I can be aware
of my breathing and also of what is happening inside me. Whatever it is,
breath or sensation, I learn just to observe it, without losing the
balance of the mind. I stop reacting, stop multiplying my misery.
Instead, I allow the defilement to manifest and pass away.

The more one practices this technique, the more quickly one will find one
will come out of negativity. Gradually the mind becomes freed of the
defilements; it becomes pure. A pure mind is always full of
love--selfless love for all others; full of compassion for the failings
and sufferings of others; full of joy at their success and happiness;
full of equanimity in the face of any situation.

When one reaches this stage, the entire pattern of one's life starts
changing. It is no longer possible to do anything vocally or physically
which will disturb the peace and happiness of others. Instead, the
balanced mind not only becomes peaceful in itself, but it helps others
also to become peaceful. The atmosphere surrounding such a person will
become permeated with peace and harmony, and this will start affecting
others too.

By learning to remain balanced in the face of everything one experiences
inside, one develops detachment towards all that one encounters in
external situations as well. However, this detachment is not escapism or
indifference to the problems of the world. A Vipassana meditator becomes
more sensitive to the sufferings of others, and does his utmost to
relieve their suffering in whatever way he can--not with any agitation
but with a mind full of love, compassion and equanimity. He learns holy
indifference--how to be fully committed, fully involved in helping
others, while at the same time maintaining the balance of his mind. In
this way he remains peaceful and happy, while working for the peace and
happiness of others.

This is what the Buddha taught; an art of living. He never established or
taught any religion, any 'ism'. He never instructed his followers to
practice any rites or rituals, any blind or empty formalities. Instead,
he taught just to observe nature as it is, by observing reality inside.
Out of ignorance, one keeps reacting in a way which is harmful to oneself
and to others. But when wisdom arises--the wisdom of observing the
reality as it is--one come out of this habit of reaction. When one cases
to react blindly, then one is capable of real action--action proceeding
from a balanced mind, a mind which sees and understands the truth. Such
action can only be positive, creative, helpful to oneself and to others.

What is necessary, then, is to 'know thyself'--advice which every wise
person has given. One must know oneself not just at the intellectual
level, the level of ideas and theories. Nor does this mean to know just
at the emotional or devotional level, simply accepting blindly what one
has heard or read. Such knowledge is not enough. Rather one must know
realty at the actual level. One must experience directly the reality of
this mental-physical phenomenon. This alone is what will help us to come
out of defilements, out of suffering.

This direct experience of one's own reality, this techniques of
self-observation, is what is called 'Vipassana' meditation. In the
language of India in the time of the Buddha, passana meant seeing with
open eyes, in the ordinary way; but Vipassana is observing things as they
really are, not just as they seem to be. Apparent truth has to be
penetrated, until one reaches the ultimate truth of the entire mental and
physical structure. When one experiences this truth, then one learns to
stop reacting blindly, to stop creating defilements--and naturally the
old defilements gradually are eradicated. One come out of all the misery
and experiences happiness.

There are three steps to the training which is given in a Vipassana
meditation course Firstly, one must abstain from any action, physical or
vocal, which disturbs the peace and harmony of others. One cannot work to
liberate oneself from defilements in the mind while at the same time one
continues to perform deeds of body and speech which only multiply those
defilements. Therefore, a code of morality is the essential first step of
the practice. One undertakes not to kill, not to steal, not to commit
sexual misconduct, not to tell lies, and not to use intoxicants. By
abstaining from such action, one allows the mind to quiet down
sufficiently so that it can proceed with the task at hand.

The next step is to develop some mastery over this wild mind, by training
it to remain fixed on a single object: the breath. One tries to keep
one's attention for as long as possible on the respiration. This is not a
breathing exercise: one does not regulate the breath. Instead one
observes natural respiration as it is, as it comes in, as it goes out. In
this way one further calms the mind so that it is no longer overpowered
by violent negativities. At the same time, one is concentrating the mind,
making it sharp and penetrating, capable of the work of insight.

These first two steps of living a moral life and controlling the mind are
very necessary and beneficial in themselves; but they will lead to
self-repression, unless one takes the third step - purifying the mind of
defilements by developing insight into one's own nature. This is
Vipassana: experiencing one's own reality, by the systematic and
dispassionate observation of the ever-changing mind-matter phenomenon
manifesting itself as sensation within oneself. This is the culmination
of the teaching of the Buddha: self-purification by self-observation.

This can be practiced by one and all. Everyone faces the problem of
suffering. it is a universal disease which requires a universal
remedy--not a sectarian one. When one suffers from anger, it is not a
Buddhist anger, Hindu anger, or Christian anger. Anger is anger. When one
become agitated as a result of this anger, this agitation is not
Christian, or Hindu, or Buddhist. The malady is universal. The remedy
must also be universal.

Vipassana is such a remedy. No one will object to a code of living which
respects the peace and harmony of others. No one will object to
developing control over the mind. No one will object to developing
insight into one's own reality, by which it is possible to free the mind
of negativities. Vipassana is a universal path.

Observing reality as it is by observing the truth inside--this is knowing
oneself at the actual, experiential level. As one practices, one keeps
coming out of the misery of defilements. From the gross, external,
apparent truth, one penetrates to the ultimate truth of mind and matter.
Then one transcends that, and experiences a truth which is beyond mind
and matter, beyond time and space, beyond the conditioned field of
relativity: the truth of total liberation from all defilements, all
impurities, all suffering. Whatever name one gives this ultimate truth,
is irrelevant; it is the final goal of everyone.

May you all experience this ultimate truth. May all people come out of
their defilements, their misery. May they enjoy real happiness, real
peace, real harmony.

May all beings be happy

The above text is based upon a talk given by Mr. S.N. Goenka in Berne,
Switzerland.

------------

Reading the above article on Yoga brings the following similarity and
differences with Christs teachings.

After you remove the cover of various levels of mind (outer level, inner level)
it eventually boils down to "Instead of running away from the problem, face the
reality As Is". Whether you look at outer level or inner level (if there is any
such thing as outer/inner level), the bottom line is, Face the reality, face
the anger, face the hurt (instead of suppressing it).

But this is where the similarity would end.

A true christian also would face the problem, instead of running away from it,
But he/she would do so by seeking Gods strength in prayer. Face the problem
(the reality) with God on your side; it would not make you sore, and not carry
around the ill feeling along with you. Moreover, A christian would go one step
ahead and FORGIVE the person that is causing you trouble, that is causing the
negativity.
To forgive is a big thing. One has to realise what it means to FORGIVE...
it does not mean  "to forget" and only to remember and revenge at a later time)

But among the similarities and differences, the more important things
prominently obvious, are things about eternity; The approach to eternity.

Meditation tells how to control your wild mind, which will then eventually
result in the knowledge of the ultimate truth. In other words it is mans effort
trying to reach God.... Meditation claims it to be the universal way of Man
trying to reach God. But the question is; Is there really such a way for human
salvation! Can Man, thro his own good deeds and inner soul searching attain
God-hood. Is there really such a way/Path from "Man to God" in the first place.
Moreover we do not know for sure if he/she will really get there assuming if
there was such a path. Unless God (the Supreme bieng, Creator) makes it
possible, it is not possible for a limited and weak man to reach God on
his/her own.

Here is a clear, simple and very practical analogy:
Consider A person (the tropical person) who has lived his entire life in a
warm tropical country and has never ever gone out of that place. One day, he
wishes to go to Iceland. Is there a way? He tries to find his own way (mans
own way) [ For some people, Yoga/meditation is the way to attain salvation by
working your own way in progressive levels.]  Since the tropical person has
never been to Iceland, he is not sure if he is heading the right way. It is
very likely that he may end up in Africa instead of Iceland, unless, UNLESS !!!
Some person who has already been to Iceland shows him the correct way. (Relate
to: Christ showing the ONLY way to Salvation & Heaven). The Christ (Iceland'er)
not only tells the ONLY correct way but he also tells everything about his
land (Relate to: Kingdom of God). Now it is solely up to the tropical person
whether to believe or not to believe. It is purely his/her choice. (It is up to
YOU. You have to decide whether you want to believe or not to believe) 
Believing in anyone (without knowing them) is not easy. So: You would observe
this Iceland-man (ie Christ) to see if he always tells truth in words and
truth in action, OR or if he is a fake guy.
  ( As a footnote: If christ was indeed fake, his behaviour would not be
consistent with his words, and above all, he would have run for his life when
people crucified him )
If the Iceland`er shows a continous pattern of truth and proves his true
crediblity, then the tropical person should be wise/smart enough to BELIEVE
what this Iceland-man (aka christ) is saying about eternal life after death.
On the other hand, if the tropical person still choses NOT to believe (due
to arrogance or ignorance), then that is not going to change the cold facts
(truth) of cold climate in Iceland. Some day when this tropical person from
the warm tropical country eventually gets to Iceland (Relate to: Judgement day
in Gods presence) he will find himself in deep trouble, he is not prepared
to face the harsh winter (ie face the judgement of hell/heaven)

The above illustration makes things so obvious and understandable; Now, it is
up to you whether you will believe and receive salvation, or will continue to
ignore the truth and turn a blind eye.

Christ did not come to start a religion. He came to show the way (God showing
the way, instead of man trying to find the way, and that is the most important
difference between following Christ and following Yoga) Being a good person,
overcoming the anger, negativity etc etc would come as a natural result (side-
effect) of following Chirsts words. His goal was not to merely teach how to
control your anger, be patient and calm... although that is one of the many
things that you will achieve if you truly follow his teachings. His true goal
was to give Salvation to mankind. Read the book of John or Matthew from the
bible to learn more about Christs teachings. (www.bible.org  www.bible.com)

In all discussions about God, there comes a point when mere men stop discussing
one has to turn to God and ask the questions of Him to Him. Where are you? 
Who are you? Is this true? God, Show me? After all this is Gods business and
not just mans business. Ask God for conviction about truth and study the Bible.
As long one remains faithful in asking and studying, God will not let you down.
Pray to the Lord to give the conviction and to reveal the truth. If one is
truly sincere, God will not disappoint you.
Sadhu Sundar singh was one such Punjabi monk/saint who asked God. Sadhu Sunder
Singh was so firm an strong in his quest for searchin the truth, that he decided
one day he will concentrate (meditate) till the God of universe reveals
himself... God of universe who ever you are.... may be Jesus may not be
Jesus.... Sadhu Sundar singh decided not to budge till he got the answer.
Lord Jesus clearly spoke to him. 
Similarly, Pandita Ramabai born in a high-caste brahmin family experienced Lord
God of the universe thro Jesus. 
There are many such people who were so determined to know the Truth and find
out the God of universe. 
Narayan Vaman Tilak is another such person who came to know Lord Jesus as his
saviour. Narayan Vaman Tilak later composed many famous christian devotional
songs in marathi, which are even sung today in rural churches in India.
[ If you are truly sincere, God will never disappoint you. ]



Few more Questions:
===================

Q1. If God is truly compassionate, he will have compassion on me even if I do
    not believe in him, even if I continue to do all things without changing?
A.  Lets answer that question with another question. If you are truly
    compassionate will you allow your own child to keep committing crimes
    murders/sins ??? Your son will say "Heck, let me commit few crimes this
    week, my father is so truly compassionate, he will not say anything"
    That should make the answer clear your above mentioned doubt.

Q2. Well OK, I dont do all those ugly horrible sins, on the contrary
   "I try to follow the laws of the God to the best of my ability."
A. Just like other humans, no matter how hard one tries, you may not be able to
   keep all of the laws at one point or the other. Even the bible clearly says
   specifically about this point, "If you break one law you are guilty of them
   all, which is the reason why no one will get saved by following to keep the
   law"  (Visualize a huge tall building caught on fire. People try to jump
   from it to the neighbouring adjacent building to escape the flames. It does
   not matter if you miss the adjacent building by 10 feet or by 2 feet, or
   even by just 1 inch. If you miss the mark, you die.)

   Abstaining from stealing, killing, intoxication, wrong speech etc etc...are
   all very good noble things. However If you do break the law, which we all do
   at some point or the other, what do you think is the consequence??  Does
   life just simply goe on as if nothing happened (in which case a thief might
   as well continue committing the crimes) OR there is some consequence (here
   & now and/or in life beyond).
   Once you break the law.... there is a consequence. There is a penalty. YOU
   have to pay the penalty.

   BUT, Christ paid the penalty. He 'SAVE'd you...
   and that is how we get the derived word salvation.... (according to webster)
   meaning He gave the salvation.... ie. deliverence from the consequence/
   penalty of sin.  Chirst came to deliver you from the bondage of sin, and
   bondage of Law.

Q3. OK, If all it takes is to merely say a prayer (mutter that Jesus is God)
   I will say the prayer (without meaning) just to cover all my bases, and
   gaurentee my place in heaven.
A. Prayer is not a mantra - that and you say it and "abracadabra" things 
   change. You have to have conviction and genuine understanding of what you
   are praying. 

Q. Should I practise Yoga, meditation? Is it wrong to practise Yoga?
A. There is nothing wrong in practising Vipassanna meditation or Yoga as
   long as one is aware of its limitations. It can give you great amount of
   self control over anger, anxiety, It can give you patience, but it can
   not take you to the Most Holy God, it cannot give you Salvation.

Q. Should I do Daan, Punya, alms and charity giving.
A. Charity giving, (Daan, Punya) good living is a good thing; But it will not
   earn you salvation. One cannot buy salvation. On the other hand, Charity
   giving, good living will be a natural outcome of following Christ if one
   believes in Him as the true Saviour, the Supreme being.
   [ Please read the illustration about "Gods priceless gift" ]

Q. Does rigirous religious ceremonies (such as, chanting mantras, daily pooja)
   save me. Will it give salvation??
A. Continous repetition of mantra (slokas) over and over again is not going
   to remove the penalty of sin. Chanting of mantras (as in Trans meditation),
   repetition of OM OM OM, Hare Rama - Hare Krishna over and over again is not
   going to get us salvation. Infact, for that matter, meaningless repetition
   of "Hail Mary" or "Our Father in heaven..." is completely meaningless if
   one does not have a personal relationship with Him ( Christ)

Q. Should I mingle/mix and interact with people from other religious background
   as a sign of religious tolerance towards diverse religions?
A. Ofcourse you can mingle/mix and interact with people from other religious
   background. They are not aware of the truth. Some of them are aware of the
   truth, but do not acknowledge it. Some try to turn a blind eye.


For more information:

"Christ In Ancient Vedas" - by Mr. J. Padinjarekara
"The Cross and the Lotus" - by Ravi Zachariah
"Jesus Among Many Gods"   - by Ravi Zachariah
www.bible.org
www.bible.com
www.christindia.org





GLOSSARY
=========

Balli			Sacrifice.

Daan			Charity giving.

Daiva-lokh		God, god-being.

Mattham, Maath		Holy shrine.

Matthadhi-pati		Family lineage incharge of Mattham.

Mattha-paath		Study of vedic scriptures at the Mattham.

Maha-poojari		Head priest.

Maha-yagna		Supreme sacrifice.

Mahabharata		Sacred scripture for Hindu mythology.

Mantra			Sacred counsel, formula.

Vedas			Sacred scripture for Hindu mythology.

Punya			Good work, good will, good deed.

Puja,Pooja		Worship ritual.

Rigveda			Sacred text of vedas.  (See also: Vedas)

Sloka			Collection of verses from the scripture.

Upnashid		The translation of Vedas.  (See also: Vedas)

Yagna			Sacrifice  (See also: Maha-Yagna)

Yagna-peettam		Sacrifice table, offering table.







DISCLAIMER:  DISCLAIMER:  DISCLAIMER:  

Views expressed here are not of any particular church nor of www.bible.org,
www.christindia.org( Christ Church Of India) nor www.bible.com. Copyright to
any articles and books mentioned here belong to respective author/individual.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

BIBLE FACTS


> Interesting bible facts very easy to remember because
> they are in sequence 117, 118 and 119:
>
> Which is the shortest chapter in the Bible? Answer -
> Psalms  117
>
> Which chapter is in the center of the Bible? Answer -
> Psalms  118
>
> Which is the longest chapter in the Bible? Answer -
> Psalms  119
>
> Fact: There are 594 chapters before Psalms 118.
> Fact: There are 594 chapters after Psalms 118.
>
> Add these numbers up and you get  1188
>
> Which is the center verse in the Bible? Answer -
> Psalms  118:8
>
> Does this verse say something significant about God's
> perfect will  for our lives?
>
> The next time someone says they would like to find
> God's  perfect will for their lives and that they want
> to be in the center of His will,  just center of His
____________________________________________________________


Total No. of Chapters in OT...............   929
Total No. of Chapters in NT...............   260
Total No. of Chapters in entire Bible... 1189

Centre Chapter ....................      Psalms 117  (Total of 594 chapters
					preceed and follow Ps.117)
Longest Chapter in OT................Psalms 119 (Total 176 verses)
Longest Chapter in NT....................Luke    1 (Total  80  verses)
Longest Chapter in Bible..............Psalms 119
Centre Chapters in NT                 Romans 10 & 11 (129 Chapters 
						preceed & follow)
Centre verses in NT.....................Acts 7: 8 & 9 (Total of 3978 
`					verses preceed and follow these verses)
Centre verses in OT....................2 Chr 18: 29 & 30 (Total of 11572
					verses preceed & follow these verses)
Centre verses in Bible..................Psalms 103: 3 & 4 (Total of 15551
					verses preceed & follow these verses).
Longest verse - Esther 8:9 (Courtsey Suresh Dada)
Shortest verse - John 11:35
Longest name in Bible - Maher-shalal-hash (Is 8:1,3) (Courtsey Lily Akka)


 
Book                 Total-chap          Total-verse
Genesis               50                  1533 
Exodus                40           1213 
Leviticus               27            858 
Numbers              36           1288       
Deuteronomy        34            958        
Joshua                 24            657    
Judges                 21            618    
Ruth                      4              85 
1 Samuel             31            810      
2 Samuel             24            695      
1 Kings                22            816    
2 Kings                25            718    
1 Chronicles         29            949      
2 Chronicles         36            820      
Ezra                    10            280   
Nehemiah            13            407       
Esther                 10            167    
Job                      42          1070   
Psalms              150          2460       
Proverbs              31            915
Ecclesiastes               12               222
Song of Solomon           8               117
Isaiah                         66             1292
Jermiah                       52             1364
Lamentations                5               154
Ezekiel                       48             1273
Daniel                         12               357
Hosea                         14               197
Joel                               3                73
Amos                            9               146
Obadiah                         1                21
Jonah                            4                48
Micah                            7               105
Nahum                          3                 47
Habakkuk                      3                 56
Zephaniah                      3                 53
Haggai                           2                 38
Zechariah                     14                211
Malachi                          4                 55
Matthew              28           1071 
Mark                   16            678    
Luke                   24           1151    
John                   21             878   
Acts                   28           1007    
Romans              16            433       
1 Corinthians       16            437       
2 Corinthians       13            257       
Galatians              6            149     
Ephesians            6            155       
Philippians           4             104     
Colossians           4              95      
1 Thessalonians   5              89         
2 Thessalonians   3              47
1 Timothy                       6               113
2 Timothy                       4                 83
Titus                               3                 46
Philemon                         1                 25
Hebrews                         13               303
James                             5               108
1 Peter                            5               105
2 Peter                            3                 61
1 John                             5               105
2 John                              1                13
3 John                              1                15
Jude                                 1                25
Revelation                       22              405

In  Indian languages (Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, etc.) the book of James is called
'Yakub ki patri', 'Yakob che patra'.  This book is believed to have been
written by James - a brother of Jesus.  In English he is called James; why in
Indian versions is he called Yakob/Yakub?
 
** Note that the Book of Psalms has maximum number of verses i.e. 2460 while
the smallest book in OT is Obadiah having 21 verses and 2 John is the smallest
book containing 13 verses.  
